What you're about to see is simple and
powerful.
Running a single Cloud Code agent is
just the beginning. Once you realize
this and you start scaling up the number
of agents you have shipping for you, you
quickly run into a massive problem.
There's too much to keep track of. When
it comes to multi-agent systems,
observability is everything. Check this
out. With cloud code hooks sending
events to a minimal client server
architecture, you can see everything.
Let's break down a concrete approach to
cloud code multi- aent observability
that let you scale up what you can do
with not just one cloud code instance
but 3 510 and beyond.
So, as you can see here, we have a
multi- aent observability system that is
taking events in from every cloud code
instance I have running. Doesn't matter
if they're running subtasks, if they're
planning, building, web scraping, web
searching, deep research, calling MCP
servers. Every event is getting tracked
and traced into this simple multi- aent
observability application. Here's what
the application architecture looks like.
We have multiple agents firing their own
respective claude code hooks. Each one
of these hooks hits a bun server which
stores data to an SQL like database for
persistence and simultaneously it uses
websockets to stream the events right to
the client you see right here. So no
matter where your agents are running, if
you're running on multiple devices, if
you're running, you know, 5 10 plus
agents, every event's going to get
streamed in. You can see I have
different applications streaming in
events with different cloud code session
IDs getting recorded here. And every
tool call, every hook.
>> Dan, your agent needs your input.
>> You can see there every hook, every
event type is getting recorded. I just
got a notification event. So, one of my
agents needs my input. We can go ahead
go back to the terminal and we can see
which one needs it. So,
>> Dan, task nailed. Moving forward.
>> There we go. We got a stop event coming
in and we can see this custom theme
feature is looking good. It looks like
it needs a couple tweaks to this. Of
course, we'll just accept and let it
keep cooking. We have one Asian complete
and you can see we have a multitask sub
agent event getting a bunch of work
done. All these events are streaming in.
And so this is the power of
observability. As you scale up your
agents, as you specialize and build
agents into your workflows, right, into
your agentic workflows, you want to
understand what they're doing. So let's
break down this
>> needs your input.
>> Okay, so we got another input request
there. Once you start using cloud code
and once you start using agentic coding
tools, you realize that you can do a lot
more by just adding agents by just
scaling up the number of agents you have
working for you at any time. This is
also great for specialization and cross
app usage. This is just
>> agent complete.
>> Awesome. So we got sub agent complete
calls here. You can see every type of
cloud code event. At the top here we of
course have filters. We're operating out
of two code bases right now. the
infinite agentic loop codebase and this
brand new cloud code hook multi- aent
observability codebase. We can filter
down of course
>> your agent needs your input
>> to one or more of these code bases.
Let's just go ahead and set back to all
sources. You can hear in the background
text to speech that we put together in
the previous cloud code hooks video. My
agents are letting me know when they
need my input or when they're ready for
more work.
>> Sub agent complete.
>> So we have session IDs which detail the
exact cloud code instance and then of
course we have event types. So these are
all the current available cloud code
hooks that you can tap into. And we're
of course getting a stream of every
single event. So we can easily filter
down. Let's say we just want to see all
of the stop events, post, tool use,
notifications, so on and so forth. And
so you can of course see something
really, really cool, right? We have a
live activity pulse of all the events
coming in in real time. All the work our
agents are doing across every
application, across every cloud code
instance. You can see our infinite
agentic loop agent is doing a lot of
work and this is one of the heavy
hitters, right? Go ahead, let this
continue. You can see that we have five
subtasks operating in parallel. So, a
lot of events are going to stream in
from this. This agent here built out a
plan. Now, I'm going to have it actually
implement this plan. So, I'm just going
to copy this /implement. Paste that in.
And now, it's going to build out that
plan. I'm still building this. I'm still
working on this as I'm presenting it to
you here. I need to make this mobile
friendly so I can you know shrink this
down and use this on my phone on my
device on the go accept this cool stuff
right this live activity policy is great
for seeing all the events coming in live
throughout all agents and we can see
highle breakdown of what this looks like
let's get to the bulk of it right the
agent event stream you can see all the
events are streaming in here we have a
total of 63 events and this does cut off
and refresh if we scroll down here we
have the application that the events are
coming out of we have the clawed code
session ID.
>> Your agent needs your input.
>> Okay, thumbs up. This application and
session IDs uniquely mark this instance
for good UIUX. We have color coding here
on the app and the session ID. So, we're
hashing the incoming app name and
session ID so that we can consistently
see which agent is posting.
>> Mailed. What's next?
>> There we go. We got a task complete with
that cloud code hook stop event. That's
awesome. App name here, session ID, tool
that we're actually calling. And then
over here on the right, we have
something really, really powerful. So we
have summarizations of the work done in
some of our tools here. We're actually
running, and I'll show this off in the
codebase in a moment here, where every
event coming in before the cloud code
hook sends it off, it's running a
summarization prompt using a small fast
model. So in this case, I'm running haik
coup to get a summary on all of the
events that I care about. So
specifically, pre-tool, post tool, I
want to see what is going on and just be
able to read at a glance, right? I don't
want to click in here and have to look
at the exact payload which of course you
can. What does event represent? So you
can see here infinite agentic loop
writes HTML file for medscan pro
clinical dashboard at a specified
project path. That's the post tool use.
>> Sub aent complete.
>> There we go. We got another sub aent
complete. And post tool use fires of
course after the tool has run. Of course
we have pre-tool use right there. You
can see these events are tied together.
Right. Pre-tool post tool
>> sub aent complete. It's the same agent
15CC5C and the running in the infinite
agentic loop codebase. This is this
agent here. My implementation agent is
still working and we are getting
infinite UIs generated over here. These
of course are just presentational
examples. Although these two are
actively, you know, working on
multi-agent observability codebase. But
anyway, I hope you can see the idea
here, right? This is something that's
going to be really really important for
you as you scale up your agents. This
architecture that we have here is a
one-way data stream. This keeps things
really, really simple. Everything flows
here from cloud code agents through
their hooks to the server. When they hit
the server, they're stored in SQL like
database. And then right after they're
saved, they're streamed to the front end
here. And so we're getting these live
events coming in. And of course in the
activity pulse, we can also, you know,
we're looking at a 1 minute feed here,
but we can go 3 minute and we can go 5
minute. And you can see, you know, a
larger collection of all these events
coming in at a larger time frame. You
can also see, you know, every individual
line represents the actual agent that
did the work.
>> Sub agent complete.
>> Right? This is the session ID hashed
color. You want your observability to be
fast, easy, quick.
>> Sub agent complete.
>> Right? This is why we have the
summaries. If we scroll down here,
getting summaries for post tool use. If
we want to open up our sub agent stop
event and see what that looks like, you
can see here this is the exact payload
for that cloud code hook. And we're
putting it all together here in this
one-way data flow architecture where
Cloud Code uses its hooks after it
finishes events. And these events then
send information to the server. There
you go. You can see five agentic loop
tasks kicked off there. And then the
server takes those events, stores it in
SQLite, and then streams them right to
the client we're looking at right here.
So this oneway data stream keeps things
really simple. Every agent is
responsible for summarizing their work
in the cloud code hook before they send
it off. And we'll dive into the codebase
in just a moment here. I just want to
highlight how important this is. It's
the same deal. If you don't measure it,
you can't improve it. If you don't
monitor it, how will you know what's
actually happening? If you want to scale
up your work, if you want to scale up
your agents, you need to know what
they're doing. And it is really
interesting too to watch this data flow
come in and really trail what the agents
are doing to understand how your agentic
coding tool really works. All right, but
this is all powered, of course, by cloud
code hooks. This is an incredible
feature that lets you build on top of
and understand what's going on in Cloud
Code's life cycle. They give us
deterministic control over Cloud Code's
behavior and it lets us steer, monitor,
control our agents. All right, so this
is a big feature. I'm covering it again
here week after week. Last week, we
covered cloud code hooks in a more
fundamental way. This time in this
video, as you can see here, we're
putting cloud code hooks to work for
multi- aent observability. If you want
to do more, if you want to scale up your
agentic coding, if you want to become an
agentic engineer, you're going to want
multiple agents working for you,
accomplishing tasks across all of your
code bases. Of course, as you scale that
up, another problem emerges, right?
Solutions create problems, another
problem emerges where we need a way to
track and understand what is going on.
And the cool part is, you know, I don't
need to open up these terminals, these
instances to know what's going on now,
right? I can keep these closed and just
look at what's happening here. I think
you understand why multi-agent
observability is so important. If you're
scaling up your impact, if you're
scaling up your engineering work, you
need to understand what's happening,
where it's happening, and what agent is
doing the operation, right? Because
eventually something will go wrong. A
system will not do the right thing. And
then it's going to be essential to have
a trace throughout your system that you
can fully control. All right? So, I'm
not saying this is the right way to do
it. I'm just saying this is a way you
can start with multi- aent
observability. You can see
>> task accomplished and ready to roll.
>> There's our stop task there. And
something cool about the stop event,
just to mention it here. If we click
stop, we can see the entire chat
transcript. So you can see this agent,
agent07
inside of the cloud code hooks multi-
aent observability codebase. It has 500
messages, right? And if we click into
this, you can search through them and
understand exactly what was happening at
a glance. The stop event is the perfect
time to copy you know the entire log via
the transcript path right here and use
it to operate on the work that happened
right so for instance say I wanted to
find all the read commands we can
quickly filter all the reads and
understand where that's happening we can
do the same with all the glob usage
assistant responses you can see that
here to do all the responses here for
this chat anyway so you get the idea
right observability is ultra important
and you something we've talked about
before on the channel. Keeping track of
what your tool can do teaches you, the
engineer, what you can actually do with
these tools. Monitoring lets you tap
into the potential that your tool can
have. So, it looks like our mobile
version shipped. Okay, this is something
of course we can come in and tweak event
streams here. We probably want to
increase the default size of this, the
default height on mobile. That's fine.
So, what does this look like? How does
this actually work? Let's look at the
events flowing through the system. Let's
look at our small fast haik coup model
giving us summaries on the event. Right,
this is really powerful. We want to be
able to observe very quickly at a
glance. We got a notification here from
one of our agents. Accept the changes
there. That looks great. Infinite agent
loop still running here. That looks
great. All right. So, let's go ahead and
understand how this works. Okay. From
end to end cloud code agent to hook to
server to client, we can see the
following structure. As you know from
the previous video, we have the claude
directory and we've added a new hooks
directory. If we open up settings, we
can understand what's going on. And of
course, it all starts from the hooks and
see we have all of the events getting
tracked. And let's just look at pre-tool
use. We've added another hook. So
instead of running one hook, we're
running two hooks. Something very cool.
We have this pre-tool use specific
script. We're of course using Astral's
UV single file Python scripts. This is a
great way to isolate code and to create
standalone scripts. But then we have
something really cool down here. We have
this new script here. And we can, you
know, just shrink all this so that it's
a little bit more readable. This looks
like this, right? So in this directory,
we have this send event method and it
has a couple of args. We have the name
of the application we're operating in.
We have the event type and then we're
adding this summarize flag. And the
summarize flag is of course what's
creating these summaries here on the
right with our small fast haiku model.
>> Sub aent complete. Sub aent complete.
>> We're not going to dive into the natural
language responses here. We covered this
in our previous video. I'll link that in
the description. Check that out after
you understand multi-agent observability
in this video. So if we look for send
event, we have this running in all of
our hooks. You know, you can see post
tool use has it, pre-tool use has it,
notification has it, stop.
>> Dan, task nailed. What's next?
>> We have sub agent stop and pre-ompact,
right? The new cloud code hook that runs
right before you compact. These are all
running it. They're all passing in their
own information. This enables this
script to be dynamic and to handle every
one of our hooks. What happens in send
event? Let's look at this. We have the
event data, which is just whatever JSON
payload you want to send to the server.
We have our local server running that's
capturing events. We have apps, client,
server, and demo. The server is
receiving all of these events. And
you'll notice this pattern that I'm
adopting in every video and every
codebase I operate in. Now, the actual
application is inside of the wrapping of
our generative AI technology, of our
generative AI scaffolding. We're
starting to build out an aentic layer
around our codebase. and I'll highlight
all the essential folders that make up
that agentic layer. There are more of
these agentic directories that we're
going to be talking about on the
channel. Make sure you're subscribed so
you don't miss those. This new layer
around your codebase is going to change
the way you engineer forever. But you
need to know where to put the right
thing. More on that in the future.
Again, make sure you're part of the
journey. Here's apps. You know, the only
thing we need to look at in the server.
You can see the ESCO like database right
there. Nice and portable. And then in
the source, we're going to have our bun
server. Our cloud code event gets kicked
off no matter where this cloud code is,
right? Keep in mind, we have hook set
up. So the hook just fires off a, you
know, HTTP request with the event. So it
can go anywhere you want it to. And so
that's what our send event is doing. So
that's the cloud code and cloud code
hook side of things. It then gets passed
off to the server. And if we open up the
server here, run a quick collapse, you
can see all we have here is our
slashevents. This is just a simple
manual bun server. We are inserting this
into the database and then broadcasting
the event to our websocket client. Nice
and simple. This is the server and this
is of course the client. We have a use
websocket event like this which mounts
and handles our websocket. So classic
stuff, right? This is Vue.js. Every
front-end framework has their own
version of this code. You know, you can
easily use an agent, use a powerful
model to completely convert this to
whatever front-end framework you want.
These things don't matter anymore.
Frameworks are irrelevant when it comes
to raw productivity. Your agent knows
all of them. The key here is we have
connect after it's connected. We have
this websocket on event and we're just
taking all of our events, slicing them
because we don't want to overflow with
too many events. Add them to this
reference. And then, of course, our
reference here is going to be available
via this composable, right? via this
hook use websocket and then our front
end consumes this. So if we just search
all for this, you can see in app.view,
we're using this websocket event here
and then we're passing in our events to
anyone that's interested in our
components and then the rest is
front-end boring component stuff, right?
So nothing special there for your
observability systems. The key is you
want to keep it simple. You want to put
something up right away. And the
quickest way to do that is a oneway data
flow from your cloud code agents to your
server. Server is going to store to both
our SQLite database and our websocket
client. So if we hop into our database,
you can see exactly what this looks
like. And then you can see all the data
we're storing. And I can even open up
our SQLite database. This is what it
looks like with a quick preview. You can
see source app, session ID, event, and
then the raw payload. And then some of
the stop events will of course have the
entire chat attached. And this is what
the data structure looks like at a high
level. And then we of course just emit
all the events to the front end. If we
open up the readme, you can understand
how to get the setup on your own. And
really what I want to do here is I'm not
here to tell you how to observe your
agents. I'm here to show you what you
can do. I'm here to help you tap into
your potential with this powerful
generative AI technology. This codebase
is going to be available to you. Link in
the description. use this as a starting
place to understand what you can do with
cloud code, the best agentic coding tool
in the game. We're taking our big three.
We're taking our principles of ad coding
and of agentic coding, and we're
starting to put them to work. And the
key is that as you scale up the number
of agents doing work for you,
specialized agents working on specific
code bases, solving specific problems
very well, you want a way to observe
them, right? You want a way to monitor
your agents. You want a concrete way to
monitor success. None of this generative
AI technology matters if you have no
idea what's going on. If you don't know
how to steer, correct, and control your
agentic systems, it's as good as
garbage. Okay, so this is what we're
doing here. You can see our summaries.
So powerful, so useful. Just quick,
highlevel, small, fast language models.
This is a great use case for these
small, fast, cheap models. I've sent a
thousand of these events so far just in
testing. I haven't even set these up
against my real multi- aent system yet,
but I've spent less than 20 cents on
thousands of events. So, this is where
small fast models really shine, right?
These one-off quick summaries, these
quick prompts. Once you start scaling up
from one agent running on your machine
to multiple agents running on your
machine like this to multiple agents
running on different machines, you get
something really incredible. You start
pushing in to true off-device agentic
coding. This is the future of
engineering. You want to be on this
trend. You want to be writing this. You
want to be pushing toward this.
Prompting back and forth, one prompt at
a time is not the way to engineer. It's
a great place to start. It's a terrible
place to finish. Things are going to
continue to progress and on the channel
we're going to continue to progress
beyond the curve.
>> Your agent needs your input.
>> We're going to move beyond the state.
We're always looking at where the ball's
going, not where the ball is. Pay
attention to what your agents are doing.
Understand what your agents can do. Use
multi- aent observability. Start
spinning up multiple agents focused on
one specific task for you. Specialize
your agents and then scale them up. The
big idea here is that we want to get out
of back and forth prompting mode like
this and we want to move into fully
trusted, fully agentic, programmable
agentic coding. I'll also link that
video in the description. Everything
we're doing on the channel is pushing
towards something big, hence the phase 2
agentic coding course coming in the next
couple of months. I'm ultra excited to
share that with you. What we're going to
do next is going to be truly
mind-blowing. So anyway, stay tuned for
that. Make sure you're subscribed so you
don't miss what's coming next in the
Agentic coding and the Agentic
engineering world. You know where to
find me every Monday. Stay focused and
keep building.